README.md, before:

# Rails Girls Houston, October 2014 Guide

This guide is written with love from the Rails Girls Houston Team.

## Goal and Tone

To provide a follow along guide that facilitates discussions with the coaches.  We are aiming to inspire with exposure to Rails, and also encourage more experienced students to explore with guidance.

Tone so far has been 


## The app repo

is at [this app repo](https://github.com/pandafulmanda/chirper), currently.  Each section is being tagged at each step as much as possible.


## To contribute,

* Download [Gitbook](https://www.gitbook.io/) editor if you do not have it.
* Fork both this and the app repo.
* Open repo using Gitbook.
  * Edit it and see the markdown live preview =).
  * Can also be edited using anything else
* Submit pull request with description of what was added.  If there is a pre-formed issue about it, please tag the issue.


## Section 6 guides that need lots of love

See [Issues](https://github.com/HoustonRuby/rails_girls/issues).


## Todo/roadmap

- [ ] Downgrade app from Rails 4.2.0.beta2 to stable
- [ ] Re-do screenshots all the way through cleanly
  - [ ] If there is time, redo app repo and tag it cleanly as well.
- [ ] Test through guide on PC ( & Mac )
- [ ] If Mac this, if PC that language in guide
  - [ ] Ideally, this would be something that toggles to show the selected one.  It will be static if making it toggle will take up too much time.


## References

It draws inspiration from:

* [Official Rails Girls Guides](http://guides.railsgirls.com/)
* [Hartl's Rails Tutorial](http://draft.railstutorial.org/book/)
* [Getting Started with Rails](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html)
* [Rails Girls Houston February 2014 Guide](http://codeparkhouston.com/railsgirls/events/feb2014/workshop/app/)

## Tips

To make a single window screenshot on a Mac,
* press cmd + shift + 4,
* press space, and finally
* click on the window you'd like to capture.

Commit message:

more clarification on readme about tone and direction

README.md, after:

# Rails Girls Houston, October 2014 Guide

This guide is written with love from the Rails Girls Houston Team.

## Goal and Tone

To provide a follow along guide that facilitates conversation with the coaches around app design areas and concepts.  We are aiming to inspire with exposure to Rails, and also encourage more experienced students to explore with guidance.

Tone so far has been using first person (we, let's, etc...) as much as possible.  Also, we trigger some errors on purpose to familarize students with dealing with errors and to show how helpful Rails can be about errors.


## The app

is at [this app repo](https://github.com/pandafulmanda/chirper), currently.  Each section is being tagged at each step as much as possible.

The base app is a single model CRUD app called Chirper that is an imitation of Twitter.  It is barebones, and does not, for example, use a CSS framework immediately.

Section 6/What else can we do is where all the fun stuff is (like making things easier on the eyes with Bootstrap).


## To contribute,

* Download [Gitbook](https://www.gitbook.io/) editor if you do not have it.
* Fork both this and the app repo.
* Open repo using Gitbook.
  * Edit it and see the markdown live preview =).
  * Can also be edited using anything else
* Submit pull request with description of what was added.  If there is a pre-formed issue about it, please tag the issue.


## Section 6 guides that need lots of love

See [Issues](https://github.com/HoustonRuby/rails_girls/issues).


## Todo/roadmap

- [ ] Downgrade app from Rails 4.2.0.beta2 to stable
- [ ] Re-do screenshots all the way through cleanly
  - [ ] If there is time, redo app repo and tag it cleanly as well.
- [ ] Test through guide on PC ( & Mac )
- [ ] If Mac this, if PC that language in guide
  - [ ] Ideally, this would be something that toggles to show the selected one.  It will be static if making it toggle will take up too much time.
- [ ] Appendix is last priority, and can be perfected after workshop if there is not enough time.


## References

It draws inspiration from:

* [Official Rails Girls Guides](http://guides.railsgirls.com/)
* [Hartl's Rails Tutorial](http://draft.railstutorial.org/book/)
* [Getting Started with Rails](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html)
* [Rails Girls Houston February 2014 Guide](http://codeparkhouston.com/railsgirls/events/feb2014/workshop/app/)

## Tips

To make a single window screenshot on a Mac,
* press cmd + shift + 4,
* press space, and finally
* click on the window you'd like to capture.
