building_your_first_rails_app/getting_started.md, before:

# Getting Started

Notice all the custom T-Shirt websites online? There are about 5 billion of them. So that is why we are going to create our own custom T-Shirt website. This sounds like a terific business opportunity. Let's call our site TEErific.

## Creating your Rails Applications

At the command prompt, we need to type the command.
~~~
$ rails new teerific
~~~

The command will generate all the files and folders you need for a Rails application. We will learn more about what the files do as we build our site.

## Opening the project in Sublime

Before we start the application, let's view the project in Sublime.

First we will click on File and then select Open.

![](../images/sublime_open.png)

Next, we will find the folder we just created with `rails new teerific`.

![](../images/open_window.png)

After we open the folder, we can see our Rails project structure in Sublime's project window.

![](../images/sublime_folder.png)

## Starting our Rails Application

Time to start our Rails Application. Basically a quick test to see if we did everything right. :)

~~~
$ cd teerific
$ rails server
~~~

You should see something like the following in your terminal.

~~~
=> Booting WEBrick
=> Rails 4.0.0 application starting in development on http://0.0.0.0:3000
=> Run `rails server -h` for more startup options
=> Ctrl-C to shutdown server
INFO  WEBrick 1.3.1
INFO  ruby 1.9.3 (2012-12-25) [x86_64-darwin12.2.1]
INFO  WEBrick::HTTPServer#start: pid=91441 port=3000
~~~

If you go to a web browser like Chrome, you can view your website at `http://localhost:3000`

![](../images/rails_new_site.png)

Commit message:

updating section 2/section for changing the front page

building_your_first_rails_app/getting_started.md, after:

# Getting Started

Let's start by telling Rails to make our first application.  Since we are making a Twitter clone, let's call our application chirper.

## Creating your Rails Applications

At the command prompt, we need to type the command:

```bash
$ rails new chirper
```

The command will generate all the files and folders you need for a Rails application. We will learn more about what the files do as we build our site.

## Opening the project in Sublime

Before we start the application, let's view the project in Sublime.

First we will click on File and then select Open.

![](../images/sublime_open.png)

Next, we will find the folder we just created with `rails new chirper`.

![](../images/open_window.png)

After we open the folder, we can see our Rails project structure in Sublime's project window.

![](../images/sublime_folder.png)

## Starting our Rails Application

Time to start our Rails Application. Basically a quick test to see if we did everything right. :)

~~~
$ cd chirper
$ rails server
~~~

You should see something like the following in your terminal.

~~~
=> Booting WEBrick
=> Rails 4.0.0 application starting in development on http://0.0.0.0:3000
=> Run `rails server -h` for more startup options
=> Ctrl-C to shutdown server
INFO  WEBrick 1.3.1
INFO  ruby 1.9.3 (2012-12-25) [x86_64-darwin12.2.1]
INFO  WEBrick::HTTPServer#start: pid=91441 port=3000
~~~

If you go to a web browser like Chrome, you can view your website at `http://localhost:3000`

![](../images/rails_new_site.png)

## You've started a brand new rails project!

Let's update this front page and make it our own!
